Sessions API (#12441)
withastro/astro: .changeset/poor-mangos-fold.md

---
'astro': minor
---

Adds experimental session support

Sessions are used to store user state between requests for server-rendered pages, such as login status, shopping cart contents, or other user-specific data.

```astro
---
export const prerender = false; // Not needed in 'server' mode
const cart = await Astro.session.get('cart');
---

<a href="/checkout">🛒 {cart?.length ?? 0} items</a>
```

> Sessions are available in on-demand rendered/SSR pages, API endpoints, actions and middleware. To enable session support you must configure a storage driver. If you are using the Node.js adapter, you can use the `fs` driver to store session data on the filesystem:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sessions are available in on-demand rendered/SSR pages, API endpoints, actions and middleware. To enable session support, you must configure a storage driver.

If you are using the Node.js adapter, you can use the `fs` driver to store session data on the filesystem:
```

```js
// astro.config.mjs
{
  adapter: node({ mode: 'standalone' }),
  experimental: {
    session: {
      // Required: the name of the Unstorage driver
      driver: "fs",
    },
  },
}
```

> If you are deploying to a serverless environment there are other drivers that you can use, such as `redis` or `netlifyBlobs` or `cloudflareKV`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are deploying to a serverless environment, you can use drivers such as `redis` or `netlifyBlobs` or `cloudflareKV` and optionally pass additional configuration options.
```

> For full details, see [the docs for experimental session support](https://docs.astro.build/en/reference/experimental-flags/sessions/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information, including using the session API with other adapters and a full list of supported drivers, see [the docs for experimental session support](https://docs.astro.build/en/reference/experimental-flags/sessions/). For even more details, and to leave feedback and participate in the development of this feature, [the Sessions RFC](https://github.com/withastro/roadmap/pull/1055).
```
Just thought maybe this hits home a bit more that it doesn't have to be the node adapter.

Also, link to RFC from here more directly encourages feedback and participation, I think!

---
'astro': minor
---

Adds experimental session support

Sessions are used to store user state between requests for server-rendered pages, such as login status, shopping cart contents, or other user-specific data.

```astro
---
export const prerender = false; // Not needed in 'server' mode
const cart = await Astro.session.get('cart');
---

<a href="/checkout">🛒 {cart?.length ?? 0} items</a>
```

Sessions are available in on-demand rendered/SSR pages, API endpoints, actions and middleware. To enable session support, you must configure a storage driver.

If you are using the Node.js adapter, you can use the `fs` driver to store session data on the filesystem:

```js
// astro.config.mjs
{
  adapter: node({ mode: 'standalone' }),
  experimental: {
    session: {
      // Required: the name of the Unstorage driver
      driver: "fs",
    },
  },
}
```

> If you are deploying to a serverless environment, you can use drivers such as `redis` or `netlifyBlobs` or `cloudflareKV` and optionally pass additional configuration options.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are deploying to a serverless environment, you can use drivers such as `redis` or `netlify-blobs` or `cloudflare-kv` and optionally pass additional configuration options.
```
PLACEHOLDER REMINDER COMMENT in case the driver syntax changes before this is merged/released!

(This is currently correct, but the day's not over yet!)
